README.md, before:

# AWS Glue Data Catalog Replication Utility

This Utility is used to replicate Glue Data Catalog from one AWS account to another AWS account. Using this, you can replicate Databases, Tables, and Partitions from one source AWS account to one or more target AWS accounts. It uses AWS Glue APIs / AWS SDK for Java and serverless technologies such as AWS Lambda, Amazon SQS, and Amazon SNS. The architecture of this utility is shown in the following diagram.
![Alt](./src/test/resources/Glue_Replication.png)

## Automated Deployment
Follow the instructions in this [README.md](automated-deployment/README.md) to deploy this utility through CloudFormation in your AWS accounts. Otherwise follow the guide below for a manual deployment.

## Build Instructions

1. The source code has Maven nature, you can build it using standard Maven commands e.g. ```mvn -X clean install```. or use the options available in your IDE
2. The above step generates a Jar file e.g. aws-glue-data-catalog-replication-utility-1.0.0.jar

## AWS Service Requirements
This utility requires the following AWS services
### Source Account
 - 3 AWS Lambda functions 
 - 3 Amazon DynamoDB tables
 - 2 Amazon SNS Topics
 - 1 Amazon SQS Queue
 - 1 Amazon S3 Bucket

### Each Target Account
 - 3 AWS Lambda functions 
 - 2 Amazon DynamoDB tables
 - 2 Amazon SQS Queues

## Lambda Functions Overview
| Class                                                         | Purpose 	   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------|	
| [GDCReplicationPlannerLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/GDCReplicationPlanner.java) | Lambda function determines the list of databases to export. It is the driver program initiates the replication process.| |
| [ExportLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/ExportDatabaseWithTables.java) | Lambda function to export databases and tables.|
| [ExportLargeTableLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/ExportLargeTable.java) | Lambda function to export large tables  tables with more than 10 partitions.|
| [ImportLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/ImportDatabaseOrTable.java) | Lambda function to import databases and tables.|
| [ImportLargeTableLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/ImportLargeTable.java) | Lambda function to import large tables.|
| [DLQProcessorLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/DLQImportDatabaseOrTable.java) | Lambda function used to process errors generated by ImportLambda.| 

## Deployment Instructions - Source Account

1. Create DynamoDB tables as defined in the following table

	| Table             | Purpose 	 	 |  Schema 	    |  Capacity      | 
	|-------------------|----------------| ------------ | -------------- |
	| glue_database_export_task | audit data for replication planner | Partition key - db_id (String), Sort key - export_run_id (Number) | On-Demand |
	| db_status | audit data for databases exported | Partition key - db_id (String), Sort key - export_run_id (Number) | On-Demand |
	| table_status | audit data for tables exported | Partition key - table_id (String), Sort key - export_run_id (Number) | On-Demand |

2. Create two SNS Topics
	1. Topic 1: Name = e.g. ```ReplicationPlannerSNSTopic```
	2. Topic 2: Name = e.g. ```SchemaDistributionSNSTopic```

3. Create an S3 Bucket. It is used to save partitions for large tables (partitions > 10). This bucket must provide cross-account permissions to the IAM roles used by **ImportLargeTable** Lambda function in Target Account. Refer the following AWS resources for more details:
	1. https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/cross-account-access-s3/
	2. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/example-walkthroughs-managing-access-example2.html

4. Create one SQS Queue
	1. Queue Name = e.g. ```LargeTableSQSQueue```
	2. Queue Type = Standard
	3. Default Visibility Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes 15 seconds. **Note:** It must be higher than execution timeout of **ExportLargeTable** Lambda Function

5. Create Lambda Execution IAM Role and attach it to the Lambda functions deployed in Source Account. This role needs to have multiple permissions. Refer the following IAM policies to know about required permissions:
	1. You can use AWS managed policy called **AWSLambdaExecute** (Policy ARN # arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSLambdaExecute)
	2. [sample_sqs_policy_source_and_target_accounts](./src/test/resources/sample_sqs_policy_source_and_target_accounts.json)
	3. [sample_sns_policy_source_account](./src/test/resources/sample_sns_policy_source_account.json)
	4. [sample_glue_policy_source_account](./src/test/resources/sample_glue_policy_source_account.json)
	5. [sample_ddb_policy_source_and_target_accounts](./src/test/resources/sample_ddb_policy_source_and_target_accounts.json)

6. Deploy **GDCReplicationPlannerLambda** function
   	1. Runtime = Java 8
   	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
   	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.GDCReplicationPlanner```
   	3. Timeout = e.g. 5 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 128 MB		
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          	|
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| source_glue_catalog_id           	| Source AWS Account Id      |
	| ddb_name_gdc_replication_planner 	| Name of the DDB Table for **glue_database_export_task** of source account    |
	| database_prefix_list             	| List of database prefixes separated by a token. **E.g. raw_data_,processed_data_**. To export all databases, do not add this variable. |
	| separator                        	| The separator used in the database_prefix_list. **E.g. ,**. This can be skipped when database_prefix_list is not added.                       	|
	| region                           	| e.g. us-east-1               	|
	| sns_topic_arn_gdc_replication_planner |  SNS Topic ARN for **ReplicationPlannerSNSTopic**    |

7. Deploy **ExportLambda** function
   	1. Runtime = Java 8
   	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
   	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.ExportDatabaseWithTables```
   	3. Timeout = e.g. 5 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 192 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          	|
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| source_glue_catalog_id           	| Source AWS Account Id     |
	| ddb_name_db_export_status 	    | Name of the DDB Table for **db_status** of source account     |
	| ddb_name_table_export_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of source account     |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	       |
	| sns_topic_arn_export_dbs_tables   | SNS Topic ARN for **SchemaDistributionSNSTopic**    |
	| sqs_queue_url_large_tables   		| SQS Queue URL for **LargeTableSQSQueue**    |

8. Add **ReplicationPlannerSNSTopic** as a trigger to **ExportLambda** function

9. Deploy **ExportLargeTableLambda** function
	1. Runtime = Java 8
	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.ExportLargeTable```
	3. Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 256 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          	|
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| s3_bucket_name 	                | Name of the S3 Bucket used to save partitions for large Tables |
	| ddb_name_table_export_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of source account     |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	       |
	| sns_topic_arn_export_dbs_tables   | SNS Topic ARN for **SchemaDistributionSNSTopic**   |

10. Add **LargeTableSQSQueue** as a trigger to **ExportLargeTableLambda** function
	1. Batch size = 1

11. Cross-Account permissions in Source Account. Grant permissions to Target Account to subscribe to the second SNS Topic:

	```
	aws sns add-permission --label lambda-access --aws-account-id TargetAccount \
	--topic-arn arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:SourceAccount:SchemaDistributionSNSTopic \
	--action-name Subscribe ListSubscriptionsByTopic Receive
	```

## Deployment Instructions - Target Account
	
1. Create DynamoDB tables as defined in the following table

	| Table             | Purpose   	 |  Schema 	    |  Capacity      | 
	|-------------------|----------------| ------------ | -------------- |
	| db_status    | audit data for databases imported | Partition key - db_id (String), Sort key - import_run_id (Number)    | On-Demand |
	| table_status | audit data for tables imported    | Partition key - table_id (String), Sort key - import_run_id (Number) | On-Demand |

2. Create SQS Queue
	1. Queue Name = ```LargeTableSQSQueue```
	2. Queue Type = Standard
	3. Default Visibility Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes 15 seconds. **Note:** It must be higher than execution timeout of **ImportLargeTable** Lambda Function

3. Create SQS Queue - dead letter queue processing 
	1. Queue Name = ```DeadLetterQueue```
	2. Queue Type = Standard
	3. Default Visibility Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes 15 seconds

4. Create Lambda Execution IAM Role and attach it to the Lambda functions deployed in Target Account. This role needs to have multiple permissions. Refer the following IAM policies to know about required permissions:
	1. You can use AWS managed policy called **AWSLambdaExecute** (Policy ARN # arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSLambdaExecute)
	2. [sample_sqs_policy_source_and_target_accounts](./src/test/resources/sample_sqs_policy_source_and_target_accounts.json)
	3. [sample_glue_policy_target_account](./src/test/resources/sample_glue_policy_target_account.json)
	4. [sample_ddb_policy_source_and_target_accounts](./src/test/resources/sample_ddb_policy_source_and_target_accounts.json)

5. Deploy **ImportLambda** function
	1. Runtime = Java 8
	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.ImportDatabaseOrTable```
	3. Timeout = e.g. 5 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 192 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          	|
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| target_glue_catalog_id           	| Target AWS Account Id    	|
	| ddb_name_db_import_status 	    | Name of the DDB Table for **db_status** of target account     |
	| ddb_name_table_import_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of target account  |
	| skip_archive             	        | true 	                 |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	     |
	| sqs_queue_url_large_tables   		| SQS Queue URL for **LargeTableSQSQueue**    | 
	| dlq_url_sqs                       | SQS Queue URL for **DeadLetterQueue**  |

6. Give **SchemaDistributionSNSTopic** permissions to invoke Lambda function
	
	```
	aws lambda add-permission --function-name ImportLambda \
	--source-arn arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:SourceAccount:SchemaDistributionSNSTopic \
	--statement-id sns-x-account --action "lambda:InvokeFunction" \
	--principal sns.amazonaws.com
	```

7. Subscribe **ImportLambda** function to **SchemaDistributionSNSTopic**
	
	```
	aws sns subscribe --protocol lambda \
	--topic-arn arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:SourceAccount:SchemaDistributionSNSTopic \
	--notification-endpoint arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:TargetAccount:function:ImportLambda
	```
	Additional References:
	 - https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/with-sns-example.html#with-sns-create-x-account-permissions

8. Deploy **ImportLargeTableLambda** function
	1. Runtime = Java 8
	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
	2. Lambda Handler =  ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.ImportLargeTable```
	3. Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 256 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value         |
	|----------------------------------	|----------------------	 |
	| target_glue_catalog_id           	| Target AWS Account Id  |
	| ddb_name_table_import_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of target account |
	| skip_archive             	        | true 	                 |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	     |

9. Add **LargeTableSQSQueue** as a trigger to **ImportLargeTableLambda** function
	1. Batch size = 1

10. Deploy **DLQProcessorLambda** function
	1. Runtime = Java 8
	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.DLQImportDatabaseOrTable``` 
	3. Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 192 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          |
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| target_glue_catalog_id            | Target AWS Account Id     |
	| ddb_name_db_import_status 	    | Name of the DDB Table for **db_status** of target account     |
	| ddb_name_table_import_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of target account  |
	| skip_archive             	        | true 	                    |
	| dlq_url_sqs                       | SQS Queue URL for **DeadLetterQueue**   |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	      |

11. Add Dead Letter SQS Queue as a trigger to **DLQProcessorLambda** Lambda function
	1. Batch size = 1

## Advantages
This solution was designed around 3 main tenets, which are simplicity, scalability, and cost-effectiveness. 
The following are direct benefits:

1.	Target AWS accounts are independent allowing the solution to scale efficiently.
2.	The target accounts always see the latest table information.
3.	Light weight and dependable at scale.
4.	The implementation is fully customizable.

## Limitations
Following are the primary limitations:
1. This utility is NOT intended for real-time replication. Refer section [Use Case 2 - Ongoing replication](#Use-Case-2:-Ongoing-replication) to know about how to run the replication process as a scheduled job.
2. This utility is NOT intended for two-way replication between AWS Accounts. 
3. This utility does NOT attempt to resolve database and table name conflicts which may result in undesirable behavior.

## Applicable Use Cases
### Use Case 1: One-time replication 
To do this, you can run **GDCReplicationPlannerLambda** function using a Test event in AWS Lambda console.

### Use Case 2: Ongoing replication
To do this, you can create a CloudWatch Event Rule in Source Account and add **GDCReplicationPlannerLambda** as its target. 
Refer the following AWS documentation for more details:
1. [Schedule Expressions for Rules](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/ScheduledEvents.html)
2. [Tutorial: Schedule AWS Lambda Functions Using CloudWatch Events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/RunLambdaSchedule.html)

## Replication Mechanism in Target Account
For databases and tables, the actions taken by import Lambdas depend on the state of Glue Data Catalog in target account. 
Those actions are summarized in the following table. 

|Input Message Type	| State of Target Glue Data Catalog | Action Taken in Target Glue Data Catalog |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------|------------  |
|Database	| Database exist already					| Skip the message |
|Database	| Database does not exist 					| Create Database  |
|Table		| Table exist already						| Update Table     | 
|Table		| Table does not exist 						| Create Table     |

For partitions, the actions are summarized in the following table:

|Partitions in Export	| State in Target Glue Data Catalog | Action Taken in Target Account|
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------|------------  |
|Partitions DO NOT exist| Target Table has no partitions	| No action taken |
|Partitions DO NOT exist| Target Table has partitions	    | Delete current partitions |
|Partitions exist	    | Target Table has no partitions	| Create new partitions |
|Partitions exist	    | Target Table has partitions		| Delete current partitions, create new partitions |


## License Summary
This sample code is made available under the MIT-0 license. See the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Add CDK + Python deployment

README.md, after:

# AWS Glue Data Catalog Replication Utility

This Utility is used to replicate Glue Data Catalog from one AWS account to another AWS account. Using this, you can replicate Databases, Tables, and Partitions from one source AWS account to one or more target AWS accounts. It uses AWS Glue APIs / AWS SDK for Java and serverless technologies such as AWS Lambda, Amazon SQS, and Amazon SNS. The architecture of this utility is shown in the following diagram.
![Alt](./src/test/resources/Glue_Replication.png)

## Automated Deployment
- Follow the instructions in this [README.md](automated-deployment-cloudformation/README.md) to deploy this utility through CloudFormation + Java in your AWS accounts. 
- Follow the instructions in this [README.md](automated-deployment-cdk/README.md) to deploy this utility through CDK + Python in your AWS accounts. 
Otherwise follow the guide below for a manual deployment.

## Build Instructions for CloudFormation + Java Deployment
1. The source code has Maven nature, you can build it using standard Maven commands e.g. ```mvn -X clean install```. or use the options available in your IDE
2. The above step generates a Jar file e.g. aws-glue-data-catalog-replication-utility-1.0.0.jar

## AWS Service Requirements
This utility requires the following AWS services
### Source Account
 - 3 AWS Lambda functions 
 - 3 Amazon DynamoDB tables
 - 2 Amazon SNS Topics
 - 1 Amazon SQS Queue
 - 1 Amazon S3 Bucket

### Each Target Account
 - 3 AWS Lambda functions 
 - 2 Amazon DynamoDB tables
 - 2 Amazon SQS Queues

## Lambda Functions Overview
| Class                                                         | Purpose 	   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------|	
| [GDCReplicationPlannerLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/GDCReplicationPlanner.java) | Lambda function determines the list of databases to export. It is the driver program initiates the replication process.| |
| [ExportLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/ExportDatabaseWithTables.java) | Lambda function to export databases and tables.|
| [ExportLargeTableLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/ExportLargeTable.java) | Lambda function to export large tables  tables with more than 10 partitions.|
| [ImportLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/ImportDatabaseOrTable.java) | Lambda function to import databases and tables.|
| [ImportLargeTableLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/ImportLargeTable.java) | Lambda function to import large tables.|
| [DLQProcessorLambda](./src/main/java/com/amazonaws/gdcreplication/lambda/DLQImportDatabaseOrTable.java) | Lambda function used to process errors generated by ImportLambda.| 

## Deployment Instructions - Source Account

1. Create DynamoDB tables as defined in the following table

	| Table             | Purpose 	 	 |  Schema 	    |  Capacity      | 
	|-------------------|----------------| ------------ | -------------- |
	| glue_database_export_task | audit data for replication planner | Partition key - db_id (String), Sort key - export_run_id (Number) | On-Demand |
	| db_status | audit data for databases exported | Partition key - db_id (String), Sort key - export_run_id (Number) | On-Demand |
	| table_status | audit data for tables exported | Partition key - table_id (String), Sort key - export_run_id (Number) | On-Demand |

2. Create two SNS Topics
	1. Topic 1: Name = e.g. ```ReplicationPlannerSNSTopic```
	2. Topic 2: Name = e.g. ```SchemaDistributionSNSTopic```

3. Create an S3 Bucket. It is used to save partitions for large tables (partitions > 10). This bucket must provide cross-account permissions to the IAM roles used by **ImportLargeTable** Lambda function in Target Account. Refer the following AWS resources for more details:
	1. https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/cross-account-access-s3/
	2. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/example-walkthroughs-managing-access-example2.html

4. Create one SQS Queue
	1. Queue Name = e.g. ```LargeTableSQSQueue```
	2. Queue Type = Standard
	3. Default Visibility Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes 15 seconds. **Note:** It must be higher than execution timeout of **ExportLargeTable** Lambda Function

5. Create Lambda Execution IAM Role and attach it to the Lambda functions deployed in Source Account. This role needs to have multiple permissions. Refer the following IAM policies to know about required permissions:
	1. You can use AWS managed policy called **AWSLambdaExecute** (Policy ARN # arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSLambdaExecute)
	2. [sample_sqs_policy_source_and_target_accounts](./src/test/resources/sample_sqs_policy_source_and_target_accounts.json)
	3. [sample_sns_policy_source_account](./src/test/resources/sample_sns_policy_source_account.json)
	4. [sample_glue_policy_source_account](./src/test/resources/sample_glue_policy_source_account.json)
	5. [sample_ddb_policy_source_and_target_accounts](./src/test/resources/sample_ddb_policy_source_and_target_accounts.json)

6. Deploy **GDCReplicationPlannerLambda** function
   	1. Runtime = Java 8
   	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
   	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.GDCReplicationPlanner```
   	3. Timeout = e.g. 5 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 128 MB		
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          	|
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| source_glue_catalog_id           	| Source AWS Account Id      |
	| ddb_name_gdc_replication_planner 	| Name of the DDB Table for **glue_database_export_task** of source account    |
	| database_prefix_list             	| List of database prefixes separated by a token. **E.g. raw_data_,processed_data_**. To export all databases, do not add this variable. |
	| separator                        	| The separator used in the database_prefix_list. **E.g. ,**. This can be skipped when database_prefix_list is not added.                       	|
	| region                           	| e.g. us-east-1               	|
	| sns_topic_arn_gdc_replication_planner |  SNS Topic ARN for **ReplicationPlannerSNSTopic**    |

7. Deploy **ExportLambda** function
   	1. Runtime = Java 8
   	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
   	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.ExportDatabaseWithTables```
   	3. Timeout = e.g. 5 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 192 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          	|
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| source_glue_catalog_id           	| Source AWS Account Id     |
	| ddb_name_db_export_status 	    | Name of the DDB Table for **db_status** of source account     |
	| ddb_name_table_export_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of source account     |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	       |
	| sns_topic_arn_export_dbs_tables   | SNS Topic ARN for **SchemaDistributionSNSTopic**    |
	| sqs_queue_url_large_tables   		| SQS Queue URL for **LargeTableSQSQueue**    |

8. Add **ReplicationPlannerSNSTopic** as a trigger to **ExportLambda** function

9. Deploy **ExportLargeTableLambda** function
	1. Runtime = Java 8
	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.ExportLargeTable```
	3. Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 256 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          	|
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| s3_bucket_name 	                | Name of the S3 Bucket used to save partitions for large Tables |
	| ddb_name_table_export_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of source account     |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	       |
	| sns_topic_arn_export_dbs_tables   | SNS Topic ARN for **SchemaDistributionSNSTopic**   |

10. Add **LargeTableSQSQueue** as a trigger to **ExportLargeTableLambda** function
	1. Batch size = 1

11. Cross-Account permissions in Source Account. Grant permissions to Target Account to subscribe to the second SNS Topic:

	```
	aws sns add-permission --label lambda-access --aws-account-id TargetAccount \
	--topic-arn arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:SourceAccount:SchemaDistributionSNSTopic \
	--action-name Subscribe ListSubscriptionsByTopic Receive
	```

## Deployment Instructions - Target Account
	
1. Create DynamoDB tables as defined in the following table

	| Table             | Purpose   	 |  Schema 	    |  Capacity      | 
	|-------------------|----------------| ------------ | -------------- |
	| db_status    | audit data for databases imported | Partition key - db_id (String), Sort key - import_run_id (Number)    | On-Demand |
	| table_status | audit data for tables imported    | Partition key - table_id (String), Sort key - import_run_id (Number) | On-Demand |

2. Create SQS Queue
	1. Queue Name = ```LargeTableSQSQueue```
	2. Queue Type = Standard
	3. Default Visibility Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes 15 seconds. **Note:** It must be higher than execution timeout of **ImportLargeTable** Lambda Function

3. Create SQS Queue - dead letter queue processing 
	1. Queue Name = ```DeadLetterQueue```
	2. Queue Type = Standard
	3. Default Visibility Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes 15 seconds

4. Create Lambda Execution IAM Role and attach it to the Lambda functions deployed in Target Account. This role needs to have multiple permissions. Refer the following IAM policies to know about required permissions:
	1. You can use AWS managed policy called **AWSLambdaExecute** (Policy ARN # arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSLambdaExecute)
	2. [sample_sqs_policy_source_and_target_accounts](./src/test/resources/sample_sqs_policy_source_and_target_accounts.json)
	3. [sample_glue_policy_target_account](./src/test/resources/sample_glue_policy_target_account.json)
	4. [sample_ddb_policy_source_and_target_accounts](./src/test/resources/sample_ddb_policy_source_and_target_accounts.json)

5. Deploy **ImportLambda** function
	1. Runtime = Java 8
	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.ImportDatabaseOrTable```
	3. Timeout = e.g. 5 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 192 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          	|
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| target_glue_catalog_id           	| Target AWS Account Id    	|
	| ddb_name_db_import_status 	    | Name of the DDB Table for **db_status** of target account     |
	| ddb_name_table_import_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of target account  |
	| skip_archive             	        | true 	                 |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	     |
	| sqs_queue_url_large_tables   		| SQS Queue URL for **LargeTableSQSQueue**    | 
	| dlq_url_sqs                       | SQS Queue URL for **DeadLetterQueue**  |

6. Give **SchemaDistributionSNSTopic** permissions to invoke Lambda function
	
	```
	aws lambda add-permission --function-name ImportLambda \
	--source-arn arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:SourceAccount:SchemaDistributionSNSTopic \
	--statement-id sns-x-account --action "lambda:InvokeFunction" \
	--principal sns.amazonaws.com
	```

7. Subscribe **ImportLambda** function to **SchemaDistributionSNSTopic**
	
	```
	aws sns subscribe --protocol lambda \
	--topic-arn arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:SourceAccount:SchemaDistributionSNSTopic \
	--notification-endpoint arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:TargetAccount:function:ImportLambda
	```
	Additional References:
	 - https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/with-sns-example.html#with-sns-create-x-account-permissions

8. Deploy **ImportLargeTableLambda** function
	1. Runtime = Java 8
	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
	2. Lambda Handler =  ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.ImportLargeTable```
	3. Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 256 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value         |
	|----------------------------------	|----------------------	 |
	| target_glue_catalog_id           	| Target AWS Account Id  |
	| ddb_name_table_import_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of target account |
	| skip_archive             	        | true 	                 |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	     |

9. Add **LargeTableSQSQueue** as a trigger to **ImportLargeTableLambda** function
	1. Batch size = 1

10. Deploy **DLQProcessorLambda** function
	1. Runtime = Java 8
	1. Function package = Use the Jar file generated. Refer section [Build Instructions](#Build-Instructions)
	2. Lambda Handler = ```com.amazonaws.gdcreplication.lambda.DLQImportDatabaseOrTable``` 
	3. Timeout = e.g. 3 minutes
	4. Memory = e.g. 192 MB
	5. Environment variable = as defined in the following table

	| Variable Name                    	| Variable Value          |
	|----------------------------------	|-------------------------	|
	| target_glue_catalog_id            | Target AWS Account Id     |
	| ddb_name_db_import_status 	    | Name of the DDB Table for **db_status** of target account     |
	| ddb_name_table_import_status      | Name of the DDB Table for **table_status** of target account  |
	| skip_archive             	        | true 	                    |
	| dlq_url_sqs                       | SQS Queue URL for **DeadLetterQueue**   |
	| region             	            | e.g. us-east-1  	      |

11. Add Dead Letter SQS Queue as a trigger to **DLQProcessorLambda** Lambda function
	1. Batch size = 1

## General Advantages
This solution was designed around 3 main tenets, which are simplicity, scalability, and cost-effectiveness. 
The following are direct benefits:

1.	Target AWS accounts are independent allowing the solution to scale efficiently.
2.	The target accounts always see the latest table information.
3.	Light weight and dependable at scale.
4.	The implementation is fully customizable.

### Python
1. Automatic ongoing replication through Amazon EventBridge event using the followings AWS Glue Datacatalog events:
- CreateTable, DeleteTable and BatchDeleteTable for "detail-type":"Glue Data Catalog Database State Change"
- UpdateTable, CreatePartition, BatchCreatePartition, UpdatePartition, DeletePartition, BatchUpdatePartition and BatchDeletePartition for "detail-type":"Glue Data Catalog Table State Change" 
2. Large schema table replication. If the table schema size is bigger than 256kb, use LArgeTable strategy to replicated it
3. Replication is done sending chunks of tables, leading to improved overall times when thousand of tables are replicated 

## Limitations
Following are the primary limitations:
### Java
1. This utility is NOT intended for real-time replication. Refer section [Use Case 2 - Ongoing replication](#Use-Case-2:-Ongoing-replication) to know about how to run the replication process as a scheduled job.
2. Tables with schema size bigger than 256kb are not replicated
3. Replication is done sending one to one events through Amazon SQS and Amazon SNS, leading to increase overall times when thousand of tables are replicated 

### Java & Python
1. This utility is NOT intended for two-way replication between AWS Accounts. 
2. This utility does NOT attempt to resolve database and table name conflicts which may result in undesirable behavior.

## Applicable Use Cases
### Use Case 1: One-time replication 
To do this, you can run **GDCReplicationPlannerLambda** function using a Test event in AWS Lambda console.

### Use Case 2: Ongoing replication*
JAVA
To do this, you can create a CloudWatch Event Rule in Source Account and add **GDCReplicationPlannerLambda** as its target. 
Refer the following AWS documentation for more details:
1. [Schedule Expressions for Rules](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/ScheduledEvents.html)
2. [Tutorial: Schedule AWS Lambda Functions Using CloudWatch Events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/RunLambdaSchedule.html)

## Replication Mechanism in Target Account
For databases and tables, the actions taken by import Lambdas depend on the state of Glue Data Catalog in target account. 
Those actions are summarized in the following table. 

|Input Message Type	| State of Target Glue Data Catalog | Action Taken in Target Glue Data Catalog |
|-------------------|-----------------------------------|------------  |
|Database	| Database exist already					| Skip the message |
|Database	| Database does not exist 					| Create Database  |
|Table		| Table exist already						| Update Table     | 
|Table		| Table does not exist 						| Create Table     |
|Table		| Table exist already						| Delete Table*    |

*This kind of action, only wortks for CDK + Python Deployment

For partitions, the actions are summarized in the following table:

|Partitions in Export	| State in Target Glue Data Catalog | Action Taken in Target Account|
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------|------------  |
|Partitions DO NOT exist| Target Table has no partitions	| No action taken |
|Partitions DO NOT exist| Target Table has partitions	    | Delete current partitions |
|Partitions exist	    | Target Table has no partitions	| Create new partitions |
|Partitions exist	    | Target Table has partitions		| Delete current partitions, create new partitions |


## License Summary
This sample code is made available under the MIT-0 license. See the LICENSE file.
